---
title: Home Lab
layout: post
post-image: 
description: In this post, I will be discuss my home network that i have recently set up at my house.
tags:
- for fun
- networking
- learning
---

# Overview / The beginning (choose one)

Recently I have wanted to use an old unused gaming laptop for a more useful purpose than sitting and collecting dust. I have also developed an interest in networking, but did not know where to start. To figure out what to do, I asked a friend who took networking at college and graduated about a year ago for some help and he guided me through the process over the course of two days. 

---

# Proxmox

To start he recomended I put Proxmox onto the laptop to be a hypervisor with a web interface to manage any services i would like to include on the system. 


*Check out the current state of my prox mox*

---

# Wire Guard

---

# Caddy

---

# Pi-Hole

---

# AMP

AMP stands for Application Management Panel. It is a game server that can be used to make self hosted servers on the network. It works as a manager for the servers, including presenting them in a web interface, editing files, automatic updates, and many other useful features for game servers.

I use it to run minecraft servers for friends currently, but I plan to add new servers as we want to play different games together like factorio and whatnot.

It is one of the few things that are exposed to the internet on the server. 
exposed to the internet using cloudflare and my domain

---

# 3D Printer

I have an Ender 3 V3 KE 3D Printer that I access via the web interface to request print operations. There is an issue however, there is no authentication of any kind on said web interface. Anyone who connected to the network could do whatever they wanted to the printer. This is especially an issue at college where anyone in the building could mess with my printer. I went about fixing this in two steps.

Firstly, I added my printer to the reverse proxy so you can access it through my domain. Going through this domain makes you use a feature of Caddy which is called basic auth, it is a simple authentication program as the name implies. Now if you try to access the 3d printer through the domain you are required to log in. That is all well and good, but you can still access the printer through its ip and bypass caddy entirely. This is where the second step comes in.

The second step involved editing the files on the printer itself. The printer has nginx built into it, so i simply went into its config and added an ACL so the only permitted request was from the Caddy ip address. Now trying to access the printer through any means other than through the domain is forbidden outright, and going through the domain prompts you for a log in to access.

---